# sc-51 - \[System and Communications Protection\] Operational and Internet-based Technologies

## Control Statement

- \[a\] Implement the following controls on {{ insert: param, sc-51_prm_1 }} prior to connecting to {{ insert: param, sc-51_prm_2 }}: {{ insert: param, sc-51_prm_3 }}; or

- \[b\] Isolate the OT, IoT, and IIoT systems, components, or devices from the designated organizational systems or prohibit network connectivity by the systems, components, or devices.

## Control guidance

Operational Technology (OT) is the hardware, software, and firmware components of a system used to detect or cause changes in physical processes through the direct control and monitoring of physical devices. Examples include distributed control systems (DCS), supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) systems, and programmable logic controllers (PLC). The term operational technology is used to demonstrate the differences between industrial control systems (ICS) that are typically found in manufacturing and power plants and the information technology (IT) systems that typically support traditional data processing applications. The term Internet of Things (IoT) is used to describe the network of devices (e.g., vehicles, medical devices, wearables, and home appliances) that contain the hardware, software, firmware, and actuators which allow the devices to connect, interact, and exchange data and information. IoT extends Internet connectivity beyond workstations, notebook computers, smartphones and tablets to physical devices that do not typically have such connectivity. IoT devices can communicate and interact over the Internet, and they can be remotely monitored and controlled. Finally, the term Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT) is used to describe the sensors, instruments, machines, and other devices that are networked together and use Internet connectivity to enhance industrial and manufacturing business processes and applications. The recent convergence of IT and OT, producing cyber-physical systems, increases the attack surface of organizations significantly and provides attack vectors that are challenging to address. Unfortunately, most of the current generation of IoT, OT and IIOT devices are not designed with security as a foundational property. Connections to and from such devices are generally not encrypted, do not provide the necessary authentication, are not monitored, and are not logged. As a result, these devices pose a significant cyber threat. In some instances, gaps in IoT, OT, and IIoT security capabilities may be addressed by employing intermediary devices that can provide encryption, authentication, security scanning, and logging capabilities, and preclude the devices from being accessible from the Internet. But such mitigating options are not always available. The situation is further complicated because some of the IoT/OT/IIoT devices are needed for essential missions and functions. In those instances, it is necessary that such devices are isolated from the Internet to reduce the susceptibility to hostile cyber-attacks.
