# sc-8 - \[System and Communications Protection\] Transmission Confidentiality and Integrity

## Control Statement

Protect the {{ insert: param, sc-8_prm_1 }} of transmitted information.

## Control guidance

Protecting the confidentiality and integrity of transmitted information applies to internal and external networks, and any system components that can transmit information, including servers, notebook computers, desktop computers, mobile devices, printers, copiers, scanners, facsimile machines, and radios. Unprotected communication paths are exposed to the possibility of interception and modification. Protecting the confidentiality and integrity of information can be accomplished by physical means or by logical means. Physical protection can be achieved by using protected distribution systems. A protected distribution system is a term for wireline or fiber-optics telecommunication system that includes terminals and adequate acoustical, electrical, electromagnetic, and physical controls to permit its use for the unencrypted transmission of classified information. Logical protection can be achieved by employing encryption techniques. Organizations relying on commercial providers offering transmission services as commodity services rather than as fully dedicated services, may find it difficult to obtain the necessary assurances regarding the implementation of needed controls for transmission confidentiality and integrity. In such situations, organizations determine what types of confidentiality or integrity services are available in standard, commercial telecommunication service packages. If it is not feasible to obtain the necessary controls and assurances of control effectiveness through appropriate contracting vehicles, organizations can implement appropriate compensating controls.
