# ac-20 - \[Access Control\] Use of External Systems

## Control Statement

Establish {{ insert: param, ac-20_prm_1 }}, consistent with the trust relationships established with other organizations owning, operating, and/or maintaining external systems, allowing authorized individuals to:

- \[a\] Access the system from external systems; and

- \[b\] Process, store, or transmit organization-controlled information using external systems.

## Control guidance

External systems are systems that are used by, but not a part of, organizational systems and for which the organization has no direct control over the implementation of required security and privacy controls or the assessment of control effectiveness. External systems include personally owned systems, components, or devices; privately owned computing and communications devices in commercial or public facilities; systems owned or controlled by nonfederal organizations; systems managed by contractors; and federal information systems that are not owned by, operated by, or under the direct supervision and authority of the organization. External systems also include systems owned or operated by other components within the same organization, and systems within the organization with different authorization boundaries. For some external systems (i.e., systems operated by other organizations), the trust relationships that have been established between those organizations and the originating organization may be such, that no explicit terms and conditions are required. Systems within these organizations may not be considered external. These situations occur when, for example, there are pre-existing information exchange agreements (either implicit or explicit) established between organizations or components, or when such agreements are specified by applicable laws, executive orders, directives, regulations, policies, or standards. Authorized individuals include organizational personnel, contractors, or other individuals with authorized access to organizational systems and over which organizations have the authority to impose specific rules of behavior regarding system access. Restrictions that organizations impose on authorized individuals need not be uniform, as the restrictions may vary depending on trust relationships between organizations. Therefore, organizations may choose to impose different security restrictions on contractors than on state, local, or tribal governments. This control does not apply to external systems used to access public interfaces to organizational systems. Organizations establish specific terms and conditions for the use of external systems in accordance with organizational security policies and procedures. Terms and conditions address as a minimum: the specific types of applications that can be accessed on organizational systems from external systems; and the highest security category of information that can be processed, stored, or transmitted on external systems. If the terms and conditions with the owners of the external systems cannot be established, organizations may impose restrictions on organizational personnel using those external systems.
