# sr-2 - \[Supply Chain Risk Management\] Supply Chain Risk Management Plan

## Control Statement

- \[a\] Develop a plan for managing supply chain risks associated with the research and development, design, manufacturing, acquisition, delivery, integration, operations, and disposal of the following systems, system components or system services: {{ insert: param, sr-2_prm_1 }};

- \[b\] Implement the supply chain risk management plan consistently across the organization; and

- \[c\] Review and update the supply chain risk management plan {{ insert: param, sr-2_prm_2 }} or as required, to address threat, organizational or environmental changes.

## Control guidance

The growing dependence on products, systems, and services from external providers, along with the nature of the relationships with those providers, present an increasing level of risk to an organization. Specific threat actions that may increase risk include the insertion or use of counterfeits, unauthorized production, tampering, theft, insertion of malicious software and hardware, as well as poor manufacturing and development practices in the supply chain that can create security or privacy risks. Supply chain risks can be endemic or systemic within a system element or component, a system, an organization, a sector, or the Nation. Managing supply chain risk is a complex, multifaceted undertaking requiring a coordinated effort across an organization building trust relationships and communicating with both internal and external stakeholders. Supply chain risk management (SCRM) activities involve identifying and assessing risks, determining appropriate mitigating actions, developing SCRM plans to document selected mitigating actions, and monitoring performance against plans. Because supply chains can differ significantly across and within organizations, SCRM plans are tailored to the individual program, organizational, and operational contexts. Tailored SCRM plans provide the basis for determining whether a system is fit for purpose; and as such, the controls need to be tailored accordingly. Tailored SCRM plans help organizations to focus their resources on the most critical missions and business functions based on mission and business requirements and their risk environment. Supply chain risk management plans include an expression of the supply chain risk tolerance for the organization, acceptable supply chain risk mitigation strategies or controls, a process for consistently evaluating and monitoring supply chain risk, approaches for implementing and communicating the plan, a description of and justification for supply chain risk mitigation measures taken, and associated roles and responsibilities. Finally, supply chain risk management plans address requirements for developing trustworthy secure, privacy-protective, and resilient system components and systems, including the application of the security design principles implemented as part of life cycle-based systems security engineering processes (see SA-8).
